[DX-999] Updated allow and block list docs (#4027)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/allow-list-tyk-classic.md

---
title: Using the Allow List middleware with Tyk Classic APIs
date: 2024-01-24
description: "Using the Allow List middleware with Tyk Classic APIs"
tags: ["Allow list", "middleware", "per-endpoint", "Tyk Classic"]
---

> ## Overview

Author: ```suggestion
```

The [allow list]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/allow-list-middleware" >}}) is a feature designed to restrict access to only specific API endpoints. It rejects requests to endpoints not specifically "allowed", returning `HTTP 403 Forbidden`. This enhances the security of the API by preventing unauthorised access to endpoints that are not explicitly permitted.

> When working with Tyk Classic APIs the middleware is configured in the Tyk Classic API Definition; this can be done manually within the `.json` file or from the API Designer in the Tyk Dashboard.

Author: ```suggestion
When working with Tyk Classic APIs the middleware is configured in the Tyk Classic API Definition. You can do this via the Tyk Dashboard API or in the API Designer.
```

 - `action`: this should be set to `no_action`
 - `code`: this should be set to `200`
 - `headers` : this should be blank

For example:
```.json  {linenos=true, linenostart=1}
{
    "extended_paths": {
        "white_list": [
            {
                "disabled": false,
                "path": "/status/200",
                "method": "",
                "ignore_case": false,
                "method_actions": {
                    "GET": {
                        "action": "no_action",
                        "code": 200,
                        "headers": {}
                    }
                    "PUT": {
                        "action": "no_action",
                        "code": 200,
                        "headers": {}
                    }            
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
```

In this example the allow list middleware has been configured for HTTP `GET` and `PUT` requests to the `/status/200` endpoint. Requests to any other endpoints will be rejected with `HTTP 403 Forbidden` unless they also have the allow list middleware enabled.

> Note:

Author: I didn't want to because I don't want this to hit the reader in the face, it's more of an aside than a "PLEASE NOTE" (which I feel the {{< note >}} formatting provides. :)

> Note:

Author: I will, however, improve this slightly.
```suggestion
```

>  - the allow list has been configured to be case sensitive, so calls to `GET /Status/200` will also be rejected

Author: ```suggestion
Note that the allow list has been configured to be case sensitive, so calls to `GET /Status/200` will also be rejected.
```

>  - the endpoint path has not been terminated with `$` so requests to, for example, `GET /status/200/foobar` will be allowed as the [regular expression pattern match]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/allow-list-middleware#endpoint-parsing" >}}) will recognise this as `GET /status/200`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The endpoint path has not been terminated with `$`. Thus requests to, for example, `GET /status/200/foobar` will be allowed as the [regular expression pattern match]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/allow-list-middleware#endpoint-parsing" >}}) will recognise this as `GET /status/200`
```

Author: ```suggestion
Note also that the endpoint path has not been terminated with `$`. Requests to, for example, `GET /status/200/foobar` will be allowed as the [regular expression pattern match]({{< ref "product-stack/tyk-gateway/middleware/allow-list-middleware#endpoint-parsing" >}}) will recognise this as `GET /status/200`.
```

## Configuring the Allow List in the API Designer
You can use the API Designer in the Tyk Dashboard to configure the allow list middleware for your Tyk Classic API by following these steps.

#### Step 1: Add an endpoint for the path and select the plugin

> From the **Endpoint Designer** add an endpoint that matches the path for which you want to allow access. Select the **Whitelist** plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the **Endpoint Designer**, add an endpoint that matches the path for which you want to allow access. Select the **Whitelist** plugin.
```

#### Step 2: Configure the allow list
Once you have selected the middleware for the endpoint, the only additional feature that you need to configure is whether to make the middleware case insensitive by selecting **Ignore Case**.

{{< img src="/img/2.10/whitelist.png" alt="Allowlist options" >}}

#### Step 3: Save the API

> Use the *save* or *create* buttons to save the changes and make the allow list middleware active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the *save* or *create* buttons to save the changes and activate the allow list middleware active.
```
